---
title: Catechin
tags: tea
date: 2022-10-15
hour: 16:12
---
Status: 🌱
# Catechin

## Catechin 
Belongs to the polyphenol group, and it is part of the defence system of the plant. Used to be known as Tannin. Tannin is the group and Catechin is one individual belonging to the Tannin group. It is the most narrow point were we can identify the Catechin into the Tannin group. So the end classification would be, polyphenol group includes tannins and inside of that group Catechins are included. Can be found in tea, cacao, fruits and berries. 

Was discovered by Michiyo Tsujimura in 1929, the first woman with a doctors degree in Agronomy in Japan.

There are several types of Catechin in Tea, being the most common EGCG (Epigallocatechin gallate) at around 50%. The other catechins types present are: Epicatechin (EC), Epicatechin gallate (ECg) and Epigallocatechin (EGC).

EC and EGC are in free form, they present a moderate bitter taste but not and astringent one. And can present sweet after taste notes as well. On the other hand ECG and EGCG in ester form have a stinging strong bitter and astringent. It is a strong but not long lasting bitterness that stays on the palate. This ester forms in a cold brew also extract more slowly, so in the case of [[Brewing factors#Cold brew|cold brew]] or [[Brewing factors#Ice brew|ice brew]] this strong bitter and astringent flavour are not present.


It has an astringent and bitter taste. It's also created with Nitrogen in the tea leaves but, can also be created as a by-product of [[#Theanine]] breakdown due to sun exposure. Using [[Japanese tea shading techniques]] we can maintain some of the Theanine flavour levels.

it has no colour but in contact with oxygen it changes colour into red brown. Thearubin, Theaflavin and Theabrownin responsible among others to the colour shift of [[Japanese Oolong ウーロン茶]] and [[Japanese Black Tea 和紅茶]].

Other oxidation processes occurring in our body are called Free radicals, this are generated by smoking, alcohol, air pollution, fast deep fried food etc. This molecules are missing an electron, to stabilise themselves they "steal" electrons causing diseases and aging. Catechin can combine with this molecules stabilising them and taking them out of the system. Helping with antioxidant, anti-aging, boosting immunity, helps protect vein and heart system bringing more elasticity etc.

Other benefits are more controversial, this is the case of body weight. By taking it together with a meal it can limit the fat intake in the body, but it cannot "burn" the fat already in the body. 

It also helps with oral care as tooth decay. There is also some research ongoing for cancer research treatments.

Tea was seen as medicine around 800 years ago, but the power of modern medicines and drugs cannot be forgotten either. It is encouraged to drink tea for it's social benefits that for the health ones.


---
# References
[[100 Foundation Course MOC]]
[[日本茶のすべてが分かる本]]


---
Tags:
Type: #idea
Zettelkasten UID: 202210151612
